Now so that we have discussed about the switch case.
Now we are going to implement the switch case.
Let's see what actually happens on implementation of a switch case.
So suppose this is a switch keyboard and inside this we are passing an argument like as action.
So suppose if our action is performing like we have already initialized the action here and if the action
is initialized as say dot next int.
So like suppose we input any option from our keyboard which is going to be stored inside this action.
It is a variable of course, an integer variable.
So if the switch is 012, three, four, five, six, how many options we are listing?
It will be depending on that only.
So suppose if switch action contains initial stage zero.
So suppose we are wishing to quit the program in the beginning.
So what case zero is going to do?
So Case zero is going to quit setting the quit two.
True.
Initially we set the quit to force and now we are changing it to true head.
The Boolean quit is set to false by default there is no quit, but if we pressing zero from the keyboard
then it is going to set it to true and then break the switch statement and come out of the loop and
again will print the list like close the terminal.
Suppose if this action is containing one like a integer could be anything 0123.
So if suppose that is switch one.
So it is going to execute this case one and what this case one is going to do, this is going to play
the current song now sorry, it is the next song.
So this one is going to play the next song and how we are going to play the next song like if not forward
if list iterator has next and inside which listed next.
So we are switching to the next song in the list.
So the next song is going to be played with the use of the forward keyword.
Like we have declared this forward here as a Boolean data type and initially it is set to true.
So if one song is finished automatically, the second song will be played.
And if we are, we forcefully want to play the next song before the finishing of the first song.
Then we are going to call this forward through and if the list iterator is set then now playing the
next song it will output this.
Now playing the second track like this where we have pressed the key too and it played the next song
from the list.
Similarly, we have a else keyword option also, and if that's a let's suppose like the list has five
songs and there are no next song so it will output like no such song available.
Reached to the end of the list.
Like suppose we raised like at this song and there are no songs after this.
So what this is going to output, no song are available.
It is to the end of the list and the forward will be set to false and the list will not move forward
further and the loop will break.
And suppose if we have press to from the keyboard, then this is going to play the previous song.
In that similar way we were navigating through the next song using the has next keyword.
Similarly we are going to use has previous keyboard to iterate through the list and play the previous
song by setting the forward to false.
Like Do not move forward, don't play the next one.
Play the previous song by default.
The next song is the play.
Next song is played after finishing off a song but with the mercy of this key tree.
The next song will not be played, but the previous song is going to be played.
And the SE condition says that if there are no songs previous to that song like suppose we we were already
raised the beginning of the list and there are no songs previous to it.
Then it is going to reply that we have reached the end of the list.
There are no songs previous to this list.
Similarly for key four, we have list of all songs and print all available option for file.
So I already told you that.
On pressing for it is going to print the list of all the songs in the playlist.
We will create this print list function after the completion of this part and for pressing the key five,
all the available options will be printed.
Like suppose you pressed any key and again we want to navigate back to the menu option and do some other
operation.
So we will press five and it will print the menu and then it will break.
Now, last but not least for deleting the current song.
So if we wish to delete the current song playing, we are using the safe statement for checking that
if playlist size is greater than zero like suppose there are more than zero songs in the list.
Then list iterator is going to use this remove keyword from java util library to remove the song from
the linked list.
We have stored all the songs in the playlist in the form of linked list and to remove anything from
the list we are using this remove keyword list iterator do not remove.
The iterator is going to point to the current song and it will remove this.
And after this the list iterator will start pointing to the next song to the current song.
We have already discussed it here.
The link will be broken and the first song will start pointing to the third song.
Perfect.
So after this, yes, there is like a pause.
The playlist size is less than zero.
Then it is not going to delete anything.
The program is going to run as it was running.
It will display now playing and basically no changes are going to happen.
So we have successfully covered all the switch cases.
Now we are going to create a function for printing the menu.
Yes, we have created a static void function called the print menu and the access specified is set to
private and this function is responsible for printing all the available options in the menu.
Like you can see that for zero we have set the action as creating for one to play the next song and
similarly for to play the previous song.
Three Replace the current song for list all the songs and five print all the available options.
Again, like these are the available options and there are nothing else in the available option.
So this thing is going to be printed again if we are pressing the key five.
And lastly, if we will press the keys six from our keyboard, then the current song which is playing
will be deleted and automatically the next song will start playing.
And if you like, list all the songs again, then the resulting list will remove the song which is deleted
and the resulting list will be reduced by size one.
Like suppose initially there were five songs.
Now this will contain only four songs as we deleted one of the songs.
Yes.
Now looking towards the print list function.
What this print list is going to print.
So we have created this function public static void print list.
And as an argument the link list of the playlist song is parsed inside this function and the iterator
is going to iterate.
I read through the playlist which we have created in the album class.
So this is the way to write.
Like we are giving a heading and a food, like a header and a footer, and between the header and the
footer, the list of the songs in the playlist is going to be called Using this by loop.
Like Suppose Iterator not has niched, has a song then printed in the list and we are using this print
list option to print the list of all the songs like this.
This part is responsible for printing the list, and this is printed with the mercy of this function
print list.
So we are done with the programming section as far as I can see that we have covered all the functionalities.
Now let us try to run this and see that actually what is happening inside the code.
So the program run successfully.
Congratulations.
Now check if the functions are working correctly or not.
So firstly, I'm going to press one to play the next song or let us print the list of all songs first.
So on pressing for we have all the list of the songs in our playlist, not the album, but in the playlist.
We have two things an album and a playlist.
So we are listing her playlist like we.
Our motto behind this creation is to store all of our favorite songs.
So we are dealing with the playlist part only.
So we have a list of all the songs now to play the next song Pressing One, and the next song is played
initially by default.
The first song was playing and the duration was 4.5 minutes.
Now if we press one, then the next song from the playlist will be played.
Now suppose we want to navigate to the previous song, so we will press two and again the first song
will start playing now to replay the current song Pressing three.
So this is responsible for playing the songs in a loop.
Let's suppose this song is our most favorite song from the playlist, so we will love to play that song
again.
And so we will press three to replay the current song.
So we have covered already printing the list of four songs.
Now suppose if we want to navigate to the available options section again, so we will press five and
hit Enter again.
We are back in our navigation menu with all the available options.
Now suppose we want to wish to delete the current song so pressing six from the keyboard and the next
song is played played automatically.
Like last one which was playing was this current song which is deleted on pressing the six key and next
song is played automatically.
Now let us try to print the list of all songs again and see that if it is deleted or not.
Yes, initially we had four songs and now we are left with only three songs in the list.
So all the functions in this library is working fine and everything is correct as far as I can see that.
So I hope that you all have went through this tutorial very correctly and understood all the concepts
involved in this and would love to make your own music library like you can omit anything.
I am calling it as a music library.
You can also call it a music playlist, library or anything you wish to.
So I hope you all will create a playlist library of your own and learn the concepts and world behind
it.
Like the coding part, you can see that everything is explained very in a detailed manner and every
concept is related to core Java nor other concepts are complex concepts are not involved in this.
So I wish you a happy learning and let's try creating this project on your own, ending this project,
and we'll sail with our next project in the next part.
Till then, goodbye and thank you.